Thanks Todd!

Wow - what can I say about the scheduler?  606 UserVoice Votes?  44 comments on that one peice of feedback?  Clearly this is one for the record books.  I don't know that such a highly demanded peice of functionality really needs an intro.  For those of you not entirely familiar with a scheduler, it's essentially the entire calendar portion of Outlook bundled up into a widget.  Telerik has a long proud history of schedulers and we wanted to do this right.  The Kendo UI scheduler is finally here.  It's as stunning as you and I both have come to expect from Kendo UI, and I want to show it to you - in action - right now.

The other day when I called my doctor for an appointment, I realized that the scheduling aspect of the whole scenario was completely broken.  I'm on the phone not at my computer.  The scheduler is looking at a calendar that I can't see.  My calendar is on my phone which is currently on my ear.  It's a complete shot in the dark as to whether or not I'm even going to be able to make the appointment after I check my own calendar and then realize I scheduled the apointment at the same time as the Q2 release keynote.  Because I tend to do things like that.  It would be great if my doctor had an online scheduling application.  They don't, so lets build them one.

Of course we'll need a login screen.  And of course we'll be using Twitter Bootstrap to give us that easy layout with very little work on my part.  I've already wired up a server event to login the user and redirect them to a schedule page.  It's blank and just begging for the scheduler widget, so lets get it started.  I'm going to keep using Bootstrap, and then include the Kendo UI CSS files at the top and then the JS files at the bottom, just before the close of the body.

Like all other widgets in the Kendo UI suite, we just need an HTML element as a jumping off point.  I'll make sure the document is ready by using jQuery and then select that schedule element and call the kendoScheduler method on it.  Just like that, we have a scheduler.  You can see the navigation controls in the upper left that allow us to go day by day.  There is also a calendar selection to jump directly to a date.  By default, the scheduler goes to today's date.  We also have week and month views that we can select from in the upper right-hand corner.  If I double click on one of these time slots, it will give me a modal window with typical scheduling options, icluding the option to do all day events.  It also automatically gives datetime pickers for the start and end dates.  I love this widget because it really shows how all of the Kendo UI widgets can be used together to make a gorgeous UI.

I can create a test event here.  If i choose all-day - it goes into the all day section at the top.  If I give it a specific time span, I can change the duration just by resizing the scheduled item.  You can see as I resize that it gives visual feedback on what time your mouse is currently over.  There is also an 'x' that appears in the corner on hover which allows the event to be deleted, and a prompt to make sure I know what I'm doing.  Of course, all of these UI elements can be customized with templates so that it works the way you need it to.

For our Doctor's office, they don't see patients at 4 in the morning or 9 at night, so we'll restrict the avaiable hours on the scheduler to between 8 AM and 5 PM.  We also won't be seeing patients all day, even though it feels like it takes that long sometimes when I'm there, so we'll remove that option as well.

When I schedule an appointment, I want to be able to select a doctor.  The scheduler has the concept of resources.  This is typically thought of as a meeting room, but in our case, it's a list of doctors.  Now I've cheated a bit and I already have a list of doctors that are returned from a URL that I can call in this application.  You can have more than one resource, so the property takes an array.  It will want to know the field in the primary scheduler datasource which contains the association.  I don't have this scheduler wired up to a datasource yet, but when I do, each record will have a doctorId field.  I can specify a title to display for the resource and then the data text and value fields.  You can see that Kendo UI automatically creates a dropdown list.  I also am passing a color field with my data so Kendo UI uses that to help color code these resources.  It also supports multiple items from a single resource.  If I mark the resource as multiple, you get a Kendo UI Multipicker widget.

This widget is just so well done.  The team has put their experience with schedulers and expertise in HTML5 on full display for you here.

Of course, I can't select multiple doctors and I can't schedule an all day appointment.  I need to customize this add event view.  To do that, I'm going to use a Kendo UI template.  The scheduler provides a very convenient set of properties to your template.  All you have to do to bind an element to a field on the scheduler datasource is to specify it's name.  The documentation lists all of the available fields for you.  You can also use MVVM binding if you like to roll that way.  My template just lets you select a start date, enter in your symptom and which doctor you want to see.  Since I'm using a dropdown list here at the bottom, I'm going to move the doctors datasource out into an object I can share.  I'm using an observable array for the edit form so it will only read the datasource once.  That form is looking a whole lot better.  Since we already know I'm a cheater, it probably doesn't suprise you that I've already got an endpoint ready to return me some schedule data.  Let's specify a datasource for the scheduler.  It's a schedulerdatasource, which is similar in it's API to a regular datasource.  It simply needs to read the appointments endpoint.  I also specify the start and end times as dates in the schema.  Now the scheduler displays each of the appointments for different doctors color coded by that doctor.

We can expand this by adding a legend for the doctors at the top.  I'll just use a Kendo UI ListView which is a brilliant way to display repeating lists of items.  I've already got a template setup.  Additionally, my list view is going to filter the datasource for the scheduler when i click on a doctor's name.  If I click the name again, the filter is removed.  We can even tap into some of the lesser known magic of Kendo UI, like the effects framework to animate in the dr legend at the top when the doctors datasource is read.

The scheduler is endlessly customizable.  We can disalow updates with a simple configuration toggle.  I can customize which views are avialable, even adding in an "Agenda" view which we might show to just the doctors so that they have an idea of what their day looks like at a glance.  And of course all of this is still filterable using the same shared datasource.

Unfortunately, 10 minutes isn't nearly enough time for me to show you everything that the scheduler can do.  It's got a rich set of features and we payed special attention to the documentation to make sure that such a beautiful control was accompanied by simple instructions with tons of code samples.  And that, is the Kendo UI scheduler.  Todd?